---
num: "p06"
desc: "tbd"
---

[6] Paul E. Dickson, Toby Dragon, and Adam Lee. 2017. Using Undergraduate Teaching Assistants in Small Classes. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE ’17). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 165–170. DOI: <http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3017680.3017725>

Bryan W.

Citing a combination of related studies at Stanford University, Montana State University, and many more, the authors of “Using Undergraduate Teaching Assistants in Small Classes” emphasizes the consistent benefits to running undergraduate teaching assistant (UTA) programs in the context of large classes at large universities. However, the main objective of the research paper is to argue for the effectiveness of employing UTAs in small colleges and small classes. Observations of the UTA programs at Ithaca College and Hampshire College are the basis of argument for the paper. First, UTAs have been found to be especially effective in introductory courses at Ithaca College and Hampshire College, because UTAs encourage more interactive classrooms, for instance, by assumably having their status as peers or mentors attract help requests from particularly shy students that would otherwise avoid the professor. Second, UTAs provide continuity by filling in the detail for the substitute in the absence of the professor. Third, UTAs create a sense of community. In support of this claim, the authors state that students’ reliance on UTAs for content and students’ perception of UTAs as peers or mentors bridges different graduating classes for student connections. Finally, UTAs can provide valuable feedback on homework assignments. The authors claim that UTAs can provide students with more feedback than would be possible if the instructor alone checked assignments. On a side note, some benefits to the the UTA is the gain in mastery of the material they help teach, the improvement of interpersonal skills, and the development of better skills for reading and debugging code.

This relates to UCSB's CS 8 tutor program because the lab sections have a similar context to the small classes at Ithaca College and Hampshire College. This quarter's lab sections averages 38.3 students per section, while Ithaca College and Hampshire College averaged 25 students per class.
